# TO DO LIST
#### Video Demo: 
#### Description: 
My program's main function is to create a to-do list in the user's chrome browser so that they are able to keep track of goals, make reminders and make little notes. 

The program's code starts in a mainfest.json file where I set the manifest_version, name, description and version of the program so that they can give the downloader some context information about the program's main functions before downloading it. There are icons codes that link the 4 pixel type images (16, 32, 48 and 128) from the images file into the chrome browser. The last bit of code in the manifest file are actions that links the file with an html file called "index.html" and gives the program permissions into the chrome storage.

The index.html file starts with a DOCTYPE decalaration and sets the language to English. Inside the head, there are three meta tag types that fristly specifies the character encoding for the file. "UTF-8" gives the file character encoding that can represent almost all characters in Unicode. Secondly, it ensures that the Internet Explorer uses the lastest rendering engine avaialiable so that the page is displayed correctly in different versions of the browser. Finally, it ensures that the chrome browser is able to adjust its sizing on differnet device widths. The next link tag connects the html file with a css file. 

The body contains a template that all of the tasks inside of the to-do list follow. It includes a list with a div element that holds a p element with the task's content and two button that correspond with edit and delete related images. Following the template is the header of the to-do list inisde a h2 element and an input and button that stores what the user wants to add into the list. To conclude, there is a p element that is used for error messages, an empty unordered list that will soon hold all of the copies of the template and a script that links to the javascript for the program. 

The javascript file called "list_1.js" starts with a DOMContentLoaded function that waits for all of the elements in the program to load before activating any lines of code. The file firstly checks inside the local chrome storage to see if the user has previously added any tasks into the list. It does so by using the 'tasksArray' key and checks the length of the result.tasksArray. If there isn't any, it sends a console log, if so, it runs a forEach loop that copies the template mentioned inside the html file, and adds solely the text portion of the template to equal the results. Since, the text portion is the only one stored inside the storage and it is the only one actually containing user information and input. One by one, it appends them into the task-list, which is the unordered list to be displayed. 

Secondly, the document listens for any clicks from the button next to the input function since that would signify new input being added by the user. It creates new variables that store the template, the input's value and the collection of tasks alreadly inputted into the list. If the end of the task is followed by one or mulitple spaces, the program runs a while loop that deletes them one by one. After so, the program runs an isDuplicate boolean to check the task against the collection of tasks already inputted and returns true if it is found and fasle if not. The task can only proceed if the task isn't null and isn't a duplicate of any previous tasks. If it is, the program sends one of two error messages that inform the user why their input isn't acceptable through the p in the html with the error id. 

If the input does make it through, the template gets filled in the text section with the input, the array with previous tasks gets appended with the new element, the error message is reset and the input field is cleared. Finally, everything the the storage is updated by obtaining the result from the chrome storage, storing it inside a variable, pushing the new element's value into the storage with a key and logs everything into the console.log. 

The next block of code creates a function called addEventListner and sets a variable that acts as a flag to ensure that the function can't be called while it is currently processing. The function's purpose is to handle the events that happen when the user clicks the edit and delete buttons next the each task. It firslty selects everything that is a container class (which would be every task since each template is made with a container class) and uses a forEach loop to look at each container individually and its buttons. The functon then sets up a click eventListener for a button. If an edit button is the one that was clicked, then a temporary input and submit button are created to recieve the user's changes and then if they pass the space deleting, the null checker and the duplicated checker then the value of the input field replaces the previous task and the chrome storage gets reupdated using the same method. 

On the other side, if the button that was pressed was a delete button then the index of the task in the array is found using the task's input (since each input is unique) and then updated and deleted from the table.

The function can only be called by an eventlistener that checks if clicks are corresponding to edit or delete ids, then calls the function. 